actions/acf-validate_save_post.md, before:

---
title: acf/validate_save_post
description: Called when validating `$_POST` data.
category: actions
status: draft
---

## Description
Used to review `$_POST` data and add validation errors.

This action is fired during the validation process (triggered when publishing a post).

If you are looking for a filter to validate a _specific_ field, please use [acf/validate_value](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/acf-validate_value/).

## Changelog
- Added in version 5.0.0

## Example
This example demonstrates how the action could be used to bypass validation for an administrator.

Adding a validation error is done via the `acf_add_validation_error( $input, $message = '')` function. It accepts two parameters: the input's name attribute (used by JavaScript to match the message to the correct HTML element) and the message string.

Removing validation errors is done via the `acf_reset_validation_errors()` function.

#### functions.php
```
add_action('acf/validate_save_post', 'my_acf_validate_save_post', 10, 0);
function my_acf_validate_save_post() {

	// Check if user is an administrator.
	if( current_user_can('manage_options') ) {

		// Clear all errors.
		acf_reset_validation_errors();
	}

	// Check custom $_POST data.
	if( empty($_POST['my_input']) ) {
		acf_add_validation_error( 'my_input', 'Please check this input to proceed' );
	}
}
```

Commit message:

Publish “acf/validate_save_post” action

actions/acf-validate_save_post.md, after:

---
title: acf/validate_save_post
description: Fires when validating `$_POST` data.
category: actions
---

## Description
Fires when validating the `$_POST` data of a submitted form.

Used to add or remove validation errors controlling whether or not the submitted data will be saved.

Please note this is a generic action. If you are looking to validate a *specific* field value, please use [acf/validate_value](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/acf-validate_value/) filter instead.

## Changelog
- Added in version 5.0.0

## Example
This example demonstrates how to bypass validation for an administrator, and also to require a custom input value. See the notes section below for additional information on the functions used.

#### functions.php
```
add_action('acf/validate_save_post', 'my_acf_validate_save_post');
function my_acf_validate_save_post() {

	// Remove all errors if user is an administrator.
	if( current_user_can('manage_options') ) {
		acf_reset_validation_errors();
	}

	// Require custom input value.
	if( empty($_POST['my_input']) ) {
		acf_add_validation_error( 'my_input', 'Please check this input to proceed' );
	}
}
```
	
## Notes

### Additional Functions
The following additional functions are made available during this action.

-	**acf_add_validation_error()**  
	Adds a validation error and prevents the submitted data from being saved.
	```
	acf_add_validation_error($input, [$message])
	```
	- `$input`		*(string)*	*(Required)*	The input's name attribute, used by JavaScript to target an element.
	- `$message`	*(string)*	*(Optional)*	The error message to display.

-	**acf_reset_validation_errors()**  
	Removes all validation errors and allows the submitted data to be saved.
	```
	acf_reset_validation_errors()
	```
